.TH RHINO-PLAYER 1 "2026" "Rhino Player" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rhino-player \- GTK media player using mpv
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rhino-player
.RI [ FILE ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Rhino Player plays local video and audio using
.BR mpv (1)
with a GTK\ 4 and libadwaita shell.
Invoked with no arguments, it opens the continue/recent view.
.PP
If
.I FILE
is given, that path is opened when the main window appears.
When several paths are passed by the desktop environment, only the first is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version, \-V
Print the program version and exit.
.PP
Rhino Player is a GTK application; standard session and display options apply.
The full list is printed by:
.PP
.nf
\fBrhino-player \-\-help\fR
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/rhino/rhino.sqlite
SQLite database: watch history, preferences, thumbnails metadata.
.TP
.I PREFIX/share/rhino-player/vs
Bundled VapourSynth preset scripts when installed from a package or installer
.RI ( PREFIX
is typically
.I /usr
or
.IR /usr/local ).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RHINO_MVTOOLS_LIB
If set, absolute path to the MVTools plugin used when Smooth Video (VapourSynth) is enabled.
.TP
.B RHINO_SOURCE_FPS
Overrides detected container frame rate for the bundled smooth-motion script when needed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mpv (1),
.BR update-desktop-database (1),
.BR gtk-update-icon-cache (1)
.PP
Project page: \(lahttps://github.com/adrianov/rhino-player\(ra
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Peter Adrianov.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Peter Adrianov.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later \(lahttps://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html\(ra.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
